welcome to lecture online and here we're
going to discover another result of
relativistic effects let's say we have a
spaceship traveling very fast with
velocity u relative to the stationary
reference frame and let's say that the
very front of the spaceship there is a
flashing light and let's say that the
light flashes at a frequency of 100
Hertz so 100 flashes per second but
since as space ship is moving so fast
that by the time the next flash occurs
the first flash will have moved to a
distance right here the distance of
course is going to be equal to the speed
of the light C times the period the time
between flashes so that will be the
distance that the flash travels as it's
going towards the observer and then the
next slash will occur of course by then
the spaceship will have moved the
distance this far which is a speed as a
spaceship times the period and of course
the period of course as seen by the
observer on the earth and that means
that the wavelength which normal would
have been this long is going to be much
shorter now it's going to be compressed
because the spaceship is moving towards
the absorber giving observer given the
Doppler shift and so the observed
wavelength then will only be this long
and to find out what that's equal to
that has to be equal to C times t minus
u times T so that's going to be the
observed wavelength by observer which is
equal to C minus u times the period and
again the period as observed by the
observer on the earth because the period
as observed by the person on the
spaceship let's say that's observer B
that's going to be equal to simply 1
over F which is the frequency of the
light on the spaceship so this observer
sees the frequency of the light at 100
Hertz and the period will be 1 over 100
Hertz or 1/100 of a second but because
this paper spaceship is moving very fast
whatever the time events are over here
will be different as seen by a
stationary observer or coordinates
equation right here so the time as seen
by observer on the earth will be equal
to the time as seen by the observer on
the spaceship divided by 1 minus the
square root of 1 minus V squared over C
squared or gamma times T sub naught so
if that's the case we can then say that
the period
as seen by observed on the earth is
equal to gamma times the period as seen
by person on the spaceship and gamma of
course depends upon the velocity of the
observer or of the spaceship so let's
plug in the number that we have over
here well I didn't have a number so
let's say that we plug in this equal to
0.8 C and figure out what that is equal
to alright so in this case gamma which
is going to be 1 over the square root of
1 minus v square over C square that's
going to be equal to 1 over the square
root of 1 minus 0.8 squared of course
remember that the C's cancel out and so
we have point 8 we square that we
subtract that from 1 we don't take the
square root of that and everything
inverse okay so we have gamma is equal
to 1 point 6 6 7 which means that the
period as seen by an observer on the
earth is equal to 1 point 6 6 7 times
the period as seen by an observer over
here now remember that the speed of
light C is equal to the frequency times
the wavelength and the speed of light is
the same for every observer and no
matter what the observer is doing and no
matter what the source is doing so that
means that for the observer on the earth
the speed of light is equal to the
frequency observed times the wavelength
observed and of course the frequency is
what we're looking for and the
wavelength observed comes from this
equation right here so plug in those
numbers in we can say or we can
rearrange the frequencies observe here
so the frequency observe which is what
we're looking for
is equal to the speed of light divided
by lambda observed and lambda observed
can be gotten from this equation right
here so this is equal to the speed of
light divided by C minus you multiply
times T and T can be related to T sub
naught by this equation right here so
I'm going to use the general equation so
I'm going to use that as let's say let
me write the general equation down so
this is T is equal to T sub naught
divided by the square root
of 1 minus u squared over C squared of
course the velocity being you if you
plug that in here this will then be
written as C divided by C minus u times
T sub naught and of course the
denominator here then will go to the
numerator right here as 1 minus u square
over C square like that now simplify
this a little bit I'm going to multiply
both the top and the bottom by C squared
so this can be written with me go a
little bit further here so this is C
times the square root of C squared minus
u squared over C squared a common
denominator now divided by C minus u
times T sub naught where is it again
remember we're looking for the frequency
observed
we can then see that we can cancel out
AC squared and undivided by the C right
there so if we're done continue on over
here this is equal to C divided by C if
we factor out a C Square from the
radical times the square root of C
squared minus u squared that's the
difference of squares so I can see right
there's a C minus u times C Plus u and
the whole thing divided by and if I then
squared is and put on either radical I
can say this is equal to C minus u
quantity squared of course this cancels
out we can't forget the T sub not in the
denominator right there and of course
you can see that this C minus u will
cancel out this C minus u and finally we
can say that this is equal to the square
root of C Plus u over the square root of
C minus u and then we have still the 1
over T sub naught but remember that the
relationship between t set not and F sub
naught so that means that I can write
this as times OOP let me simplify like
this so I can write this as F sub naught
right there instead of 1 over T sub
naught I can write F sub naught and so
finally we can write that the frequency
observed by the station observer right
there is equal to the square root of C
plus u divided
by C minus u times the frequency as seen
by the observer on the spaceship and
that's how you find the frequency of an
event where the event is moving really
fast and of course if we then as an
example plug in the numbers we can say
that the frequency that observed it is
equal to the square root of the speed of
light which is C plus U which is 0.8 C
divided by speed of light which is C
minus 0.8 C times the original frequency
which we said was 100 Hertz and so this
becomes 1.8 C divided by 0.2 C and the
C's will cancel out so would be 1 point
8 divided by 0.2 which is 9 so that
would be the square root of 9 times 100
Hertz and of course the square root of 9
is the same as 3 so this would be 3
times 100 Hertz or 300 Hertz which means
that if you have a spaceship that's
moving at 0.8 C 80 percent speed of
light and it has a flashing light at the
very front it's flashing at a frequency
of 100 Hertz and far away somebody on a
stationary reference frame seeing the
spaceship approach at point 8 C will see
the frequency of D of the light at 300
Hertz and that's how you do a problem
like that